# Summary of Changes

[Include a paragraph or two summarising the main changes you have made 
in the revision and how they address the main concerns raised by the 
reviewers.]

[Respond point by point to the issues mentioned in the meta-review. Be 
clear and explicit in explaining what concern(s) the reviewer(s) raised 
in the meta-review, and how you have addressed them. Also, please point 
to the section(s) of the paper where the changes can be found.]

The main concerns of the meta review were about:

> - the deployment scenario which relies on a central entity,

We have clarified and elaborated on the identity assumptions. The 
deployment scenario doesn't rely on a central entity, it's a *logically* 
centralized entity --- just like a distributed ledger (we can even quote 
Schneier on that).

With the current state of things, we see the shortest path to deployment 
through reliance on existing electronic IDs (e.g. eIDAS infrastructure 
in the EU). These ensure Sybil-proof identities, both from the 
individual's and the government's perspective. Depending on country, 
there are strong audit trails for adding new identities, which would 
prevent the government from performing a Sybil attack. We rely on this 
system for other democratic processes, such as voting, so it should be 
sufficient for our purposes too.

But, as we point out, if someone would come up with a perfectly 
decentralized, Sybil-proof system for identities, it can be plugged into 
our protocol without any problem.

> - the complexity of the protocol, and

We've tried to simplify the presentation. The basic idea of the protocol 
is actually quite simple: everyone has a key k, to sign up for a 
petition cid they compute a pseudonym pid for that particular pedition, 
such that pid = PRF[k, cid]. Then they submit a non-interactive 
zero-knowledge (NIZK) proof that pid is indeed of the correct form (and 
not just any random value).

Some complexity is added when we want to extend this idea to protests, 
because then we need to tie the time and location into that NIZK proof. 
The only known method for Alice to prove that she has been in a 
particular location is to have a trusted-third party vouch for her (i.e. 
a location proof by, what we call, a witness). How is a witness supposed 
to tell the difference between Alice standing in front of them or Bob 
standing in front of them relaying stuff from Alice? This is the problem 
solved by distance bounding. Now Alice must prove the correctness of pid 
and that she (her key k) is close to the witness.

> - the use of yet-to-be-designed primitives like distance bounding 
>   protocols while leaving existing primitives like functional 
>   encryption out of the model.

There is no existing DB protocol that can do the proof-of-knowledge that 
we need. However, we believe that such a protocol can be constructed and 
we're currently working on that.

As to the functional encryption: we have now included a more complete 
description of distance-bounding protocols in the Building Blocks 
section, this should hopefully make it clear that functional encryption 
is in fact considered. Terrorist-fraud resistance implies that there is 
no computation that Alice can do to help Bob fool a witness into 
believing Alice is close when she's not --- effectively her only option 
is to give her private key to Bob.

> - that the paper should assume a more hostile environment since the 
>   attacker could be a government entity. In particular, the authors 
>   should protect against adversary model A2 and avoid vulnerabilities 
>   even when a large portion of the witnesses is malicious.

We have now clarified the adversary. In particular we removed A2 as that 
adversary seemed to cause more confusion that it did help. A2 was 
essentially an abstraction of a global passive adversary.

We have emphasized why we think that (then) A1 is sufficient: we assume 
that people can use Tor etc. for anonymous submission etc.

improved adversary model and security analysis

[Mention whether/how you have addressed the other issues raised in the 
individual reviews (not included in the meta-review.)
If there are points in the reviews you disagree with, and have thus not 
addressed, make sure you make a convincing case providing your reasons.]

improved discussion of limitations
improved performance/communications discussion

did not do (give reasons)

solve identity problem
resist A2 (global passive adversary)
include functional encryption instead of (?) distance bounding

[Provide info on other changes you might have made to the paper (not 
necessarily raised in the reviews).
Refrain from listing very minor changes (e.g., typos), it’s assumed that 
you have corrected them.]

[You are advised to put some effort in drafting a summary that makes it 
easy for reviewers to understand how the new version compares to the old 
one, and how you have addressed their comments and improved the paper. 
Expect reviewers to read your summary of changes before they read the 
new version of the paper, so you should see it as an opportunity to 
present the improvements you’ve made during the revision of the paper.]


